# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In the console.rb file (property 1,2 & 3) 

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

The save method in the property.rb file

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

4, 13, 22, 31 ,33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

id is defined by Postgres as it needs to be unique and as a user we would not know what ids have been used already

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In the save method in property.rb the "Returning ID" clause in the INSERT statement brings back the id which is then assigned with the line "@id =..." 

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

This ensures that the code does not break if there isn't a unique id set up on the table.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Instance methods are set up to act on specific instances of the class e.g. property1. Class methods are set up to carry out actions which are not specific to an instance of the class. e.g. Property.all() brings back every row in the database.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It is an array of one hash. In this case since there is only one item in the array we can access that hash by using the [0] index and then use the key 'id' to get the id from the hash.


Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

They bridge the gap between ruby and SQL so that SQL variables can be mapped to Ruby instance variables and vice versa. It also means SQL treats inputs as strings and avoids malicious SQL code being executed.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

They take in an ID / address variable. These variables are specified in the console file.

Q11. What are their return values?

They return a new instance of the Property class.
